So that was pretty quick,
we were able to actually generate a map,
a JavaScript widget basically without
actually knowing any JavaScript.
So just to reiterate the leaflet
function you can think of is
just actually creating like,
if you're familiar with Photoshop,
it's almost like creating a layer or
something like that.
Okay, it's basically just
creating the background,
and then you have to add
the actual content on top of it,
so add tiles is adding specifically
the mapping data from Open Street Map.
Okay, so then when we display that
map then we have a map that we
can zoom around in, and look.
And you can see how it's kind of
zooming in towards Baltimore there,
which is where Hopkins is at.
But we probably actually want
to do things like add markers,
add some direct interactivity.
And so the command to add
a marker is really easy.
It's just add markers, and the first one
we're going to do is just we're going to
add one at a specific longitude and
latitude.
And we are going to give it
a little label, so let's do that.
Okay now, the first thing I want
to mention is that the variable,
my map has already been defined.
So, I'm going to go through
the piping notation once again,
because it's a little bit strange here.
And then after this I'm going to quit
going through the piping notation so
but let's just run it once and see it and
then we'll talk about what
the code is actually doing.
Okay so there we ran it and
now we see here's Johns Hopkins hospital.
And if we click we have
this little marker.
If we click on it we
see Jeff Leek's office.
But let's actually Zoom in and
see if we can find Jeff Leek's Surf
in the internet, there you go.
Actually, so
we're in the Bloomberg's School of
Public Health, there it is right there.
Actually the oldest School of
Public Health in the country.
Okay, all right, so
let's go through the code.
So the type annotation, once again I'm
going to just show you the equivalent.
So remember my map and
I'm going to just redo it.
My map is already defined from up
here from when I ran it from the code
from the first set of slides,
so let me redo that.
So I've overwritten it
back to where it's just
added the content with no markers, okay?
Now this set of commands that we did to
add the marker is equivalent to saying
that my map, which I've already defined,
is equal to addMarkers(my_map.
And then I'm just going to copy this code,
because I don't want to have to retype
it and let me bring this up here.
Okay, so this one line here,
these lines are equivalent to this
one line here and there we go.
As you can see it does the same thing.
Okay, so what is it doing?
So first we have to assign my map to
itself which seems ridiculous but
it does just see you can do the piping and
it's just saying I'm piping this.
Variable now into the first argument
of the function add markers, okay.
And then we're still going to
assign it back to the original
variable that's on the left most
side of all my assignments, okay.
And you might think this is a ridiculous
thing to do especially because Brian you
just managed to put this
whole thing in one line.
Why are we placing one line
with all this other lines.
First of all,
I got rid of some line breaks
that probably are better being there.
Anyway, but the reason is because
piping is very powerful and
it's something that you
want to get used to
especially when you're doing chained
operations in deplier for example.
And in some of these mapping
circumstances like this.
You crave this variable and then you're
adding lots of layers and markers and
things like that and
they can get tedious to keep retyping
out the same set of commands.
And so the only reason we actually have
this first line is because we didn't,
we have it separated from
these sets of lines up here.
If you wanted to do it, the way you would
likely do it, you would have done this.
Let me [INAUDIBLE] just give me,
stick with me one second here,
you would have done something like this,
you would have done my map is that and
then, you would have done like this.
[SOUND] I fail at typing.
Okay there we go.
So this would be a equivalent
total set of plans.
And there you can see now
the chaining is really useful, right?
It's simplifying the code.
Okay, and so here, we just created
it once and we're not having
to reassign this variable over time,
we're just chaining it through each time.
It just creates for a nicer code.
If you've used it in D Prior,
the same rationale for
using it in D Prior applies
here in Leaflet, okay.
And that's why the code is this way and
you should get used to it.
And so from now on we're not
going to talk about this.
We're just going to go
through the Leaflet commands.
Okay, now,
to further expand on the Leaflet commands,
all that we had to do for
the add markers right?
The first thing is is
because of the chaining,
the first argument is going
to be your map variable, but
then after that you just have to
give it the longitude and latitude.
The specific coordinates that you want for
your marker, and
then the pop up just gives
you the text for the pop up.
So when you click on it, you actually see
that it says Jeff Leek's office, okay?
All right and so you can think,
you can imagine if you're making a fairly
complicated map, you might have lots and
lots and lots of markers added.
And we'll go through some examples.